标题：Ruben Gallego travels to Pennsylvania amid 2028 shadow primary
链接：https://www.politico.com/news/2025/05/05/ruben-gallego-pennsylvania-2028-00326180

Ruben Gallego is setting off to a key battleground state to speak with voters this week, a sign the Arizona senator may have higher ambitions as some Democrats float him as a potential 2028 presidential candidate.

Gallego will headline a May 10 town hall in Bucks County, Pennsylvania, a pivotal bellwether that President Donald Trump flipped in 2024, according to plans shared first with POLITICO.

“No one understands the struggles of working-class Americans like Ruben Gallego,” said Gallego’s chief of staff, Raphael Chavez-Fernandez. “He’s heading to Pennsylvania to speak directly to voters about what it means to fight for working-class families — because he’s lived their fight.”

Gallego is visiting the district held by Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick (R-Pa.), a perennial Democratic target, as part of [_an effort by the party to spotlight vulnerable Republicans over possible cuts to Medicaid_](https://www.axios.com/2025/05/02/trump-democrats-republicans-congress-budget-bill) and to pressure them to vote against Trump’s budget bill.

Gallego is the latest in a string of potential Democratic presidential candidates to hit the road in what is transforming into an all-out shadow primary years ahead of 2028. Former Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg [_is traveling to hold a town hall with a veterans group in Iowa this month_](https://www.cnn.com/2025/05/01/politics/pete-buttigieg-iowa-town-hall), [_following his success in the presidential caucuses there in 2020_](https://apnews.com/article/fc6777e93b8c50b2fd20e0d31fcc43b3). Maryland Gov. Wes Moore is [_headed to the early primary state of South Carolina_](https://www.politico.com/news/2025/05/02/moore-palmetto-dinner-presidential-run-00322376) to appear at a top Democratic dinner. Illinois Gov. JB Pritzker [_recently visited New Hampshire_](https://www.politico.com/news/2025/04/27/jb-pritzker-pillories-do-nothing-democrats-at-new-hampshire-fundraiser-00312125), another early primary state, to keynote a dinner.

Gallego is a rising star in the Democratic Party who won a state in 2024 that Trump carried in part by overperforming among Latino voters compared to former Vice President Kamala Harris. He [_previously told POLITICO_](https://www.politico.com/news/magazine/2025/03/28/2024-election-democrats-kamala-harris-00230631) that one reason for his victory is that “we rejected what people had assumed the Democratic position had been, which is a very loose, loose enforcement of the border.”

Gallego’s allies have also argued his success stems from his ability to talk about his humble beginnings at a time when Democrats are struggling to win over working-class voters. Gallego grew up poor with a single mother, eventually making it to Harvard, where he worked part-time as a janitor, and enlisted in the Marine Corps and served in the Iraq War.

In a statement, Democratic National Committee Chair Ken Martin called Gallego “a critical voice for the Democratic Party.”

---
标题：AOC won’t seek top Oversight Committee post
链接：https://www.politico.com/news/2025/05/05/aoc-wont-seek-top-oversight-committee-post-00330184

Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez said Monday she won’t seek the top Democratic position on the Oversight Committee, citing the caucus’ preference for seniority.

”It’s actually clear to me that the underlying dynamics in the caucus have not shifted with respect to seniority as much as I think would be necessary, so I believe I’ll be staying put at Energy and Commerce,” the New York progressive told reporters.

Virginia Rep. Gerry Connolly’s decision to step aside as the top Democrat on the high-profile panel for health reasons has kicked off a quiet scramble to succeed him even before a formal vacancy was declared. 

Ocasio-Cortez, 35, was [seen as a potential candidate](https://www.politico.com/news/2025/04/30/aoc-house-oversight-democratic-party-future-00317612) after coming up short in a bid for the top Oversight job last year. That contest tested House Democrats' appetite for younger leadership amid a broader shift in the caucus, with longtime allies ultimately lining up behind Connolly even as other committee heads stepped aside in the face of challenges from younger lawmakers.

Since then, Ocasio-Cortez has headlined a series of packed "Fight Oligarchy" rallies with Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.). The national tour has stoked speculation about a potential run for higher office, and her decision to forego a step up the ladder in the House might only fuel that speculation further.

Ocasio-Cortez said she believed the thinking among House Democrats hadn't shifted appreciably enough since the earlier contest. "I think the result will largely be the same at this point," she said.

Connolly named Massachusetts Rep. Stephen Lynch, 70, as Democrats' interim leader on the panel, and Lynch said last week he will seek the top job with Connolly's backing. 

On top of the seniority-based dynamics and lingering friction over past political fights, Ocasio-Cortez would have faced other obstacles to running for the top Oversight job. She left the panel after winning a seat last year on the more powerful Energy and Commerce Committee; rejoining would have required Democratic leaders to waive caucus rules and potentially to do some reshuffling on panels. 

Ocasio-Cortez's decision not to run this time will open up a crowded field of candidates for the top position, some of whom have already started to quietly round up support in the caucus. 

Texas Rep. Jasmine Crockett has already started [privately stumping for the job](https://www.politico.com/live-updates/2025/05/01/congress/crockett-maneuvers-for-oversight-00321736), and other young progressives could seek the role too including Reps. Robert Garcia of California, Ro Khanna of California and Maxwell Frost of Florida.

---
标题：House Republicans again block vote on Trump’s tariffs
链接：https://www.politico.com/live-updates/2025/05/05/congress/house-rules-tariff-votes-blocked-00330130

Republicans on the House Rules Committee moved again to block a vote on rolling back Donald Trump’s tariffs Monday in their latest effort to protect the president's authority over global trade.

Democrats on the panel offered an amendment that would have reversed [earlier Rules](https://www.politico.com/live-updates/2025/04/09/congress/house-gop-leaders-move-to-quash-vote-on-trumps-global-tariffs-00280922) [Committee maneuvers](https://www.politico.com/live-updates/2025/03/11/congress/house-republicans-move-to-block-vote-on-trumps-tariffs-00223947) that effectively blocked attempts to call floor votes overturning the tariffs. One amendment offered by Rep. Teresa Leger Fernández (D-N.M.) was ruled out of order by Chair Virginia Foxx (R-N.C.); a second amendment was voted down on party lines.

"These tariffs are tanking our economy, and the public wants us to take action," Leger Fernández said. 

Speaker Mike Johnson has given Trump immense leeway on the trade levies as the fallout continues to reverberate through the financial markets and the broader global economy. Last week, Johnson [cracked the door open](https://www.politico.com/live-updates/2025/04/30/congress/mike-johnson-tariffs-congress-00317899) to congressional action on the tariffs if an “imbalance” develops between the branches. But said he didn't believe it would become necessary.

---
标题：Trump’s No. 1 campaign pledge hinges on GOP delivering megabill
链接：https://www.politico.com/news/2025/05/05/trump-deportations-funding-gop-megabill-00329796

President Donald Trump’s ability to accelerate his lagging deportations agenda hinges on congressional Republicans figuring out what they’re going to cut to pay for it.

White House border czar Tom Homan has pleaded with GOP lawmakers for more money for months as the White House has struggled to launch the mass deportation campaign the president promised. Top administration officials have been in close touch with the Hill about the figures they need to ramp up removals.

Republicans appear ready to give the White House more than officials have asked for. The House and Senate proposals would allow the committees that oversee immigration to spend between $200 billion and $350 billion — as Homan has projected the deportation effort would cost [$86 billion to execute.](https://news.bgov.com/bloomberg-government-news/trump-border-czar-sees-86-billion-cost-to-target-migrants-1)

Republicans agree with the idea of plowing billions into the president’s No. 1 campaign pledge. But that money is out of reach, as lawmakers struggle to agree on cuts to pay for the huge increase in spending plus the extension of the tax breaks Trump signed into law during his last term.** **

A Department of Homeland Security memo last month warned House and Senate Republicans that failure to pass the legislation would “undo all the Trump Administration’s Massive Successes.” And the president’s [budget outline released Friday](https://www.politico.com/news/2025/05/02/trumps-budget-asks-congress-00323256) further underscored where the White House is pressuring lawmakers to land: Trump called for a 65 percent increase in funding for border security and Immigration and Customs Enforcement, even as he’s seeking major cuts across the federal government.

“It’s No. 1 for those guys … what we want is what they want,” said House Homeland Security Chair Mark Green (R-Tenn.). “We all want to get this done … we’re going full speed.”

The funding would turbocharge ICE with an unprecedented influx of cash, allowing the Trump administration to hire thousands of more agents and expand detention capacity across the country. It would also flow to private contractors as the Trump administration looks to outsource some of the deportation process by helping track down migrants and detaining them in for-profit detention facilities.

Trump’s vow to quickly remove millions of undocumented immigrants from the country has faced a number of roadblocks. The administration has run up against a bogged-down immigration court system as well as challenges with detention space and staffing, spreading ICE agents thin as they work to deport 1 million undocumented immigrants this year — four times as many as last year.

“We should understand that until they have that money and can start to spend that money, no one should really think that they can start raising the deportation numbers that much,” said Michael Kagan, director of the University of Nevada, Las Vegas Immigration Clinic. “They need that money, and that is the first step for expanding detention space.”

The House GOP proposal recommends tens of billions of dollars for detention facilities and the hiring and retention of immigration enforcement personnel — paving the way for the kind of historic crackdown immigration hardliners have long pushed for.

“You’re going to be able to build a wall. You’re going to have detention facilities, deportation, all of that stuff,” said Michael Hough, director of federal relations at NumbersUSA, a group that works to reduce both legal and illegal immigration. “This would be huge, historic.”

ICE says it has deported roughly 65,700 immigrants since Trump took office, though the deportation numbers have been questioned by experts. The agency has reported 66,500 arrests since January, claiming that three of four were undocumented immigrants with criminal records.

So far this year, the Trump administration’s monthly deportation pace has been lower than that of the Biden administration at the same time last year. That’s in part because it’s easier to deport people arrested at the border than those apprehended inside the country, and the number of people crossing the border has continued to plummet since Trump took office.

“They’ve had tremendous success in securing the border. We just want to make sure they can continue to do that,” said House Judiciary Chair Jim Jordan (R-Ohio).

But more money won’t resolve all of Trump’s challenges — and “arresting and detaining more people” does not automatically result in more removals, said Deborah Fleischaker, former acting chief of staff for ICE during the Biden administration. Home countries of many migrants — especially those who committed crimes — don’t always want to take them back. That’s part of the reason the Trump administration has entered a deal with El Salvador to accept deportees from the U.S. and is now in talks with other countries in addition.

It also takes time and resources to hire, vet and train more agents, and new detention facilities won’t be up and running overnight. The president’s rhetoric has spurred fear across communities, with many immigrants seeking legal aid and going into hiding.

“We’re a long ways away from 100,000 beds and a million removals. A million removals, that’s like 30,000 removals a week,” said an ICE official, granted anonymity to speak candidly. During “the previous three administrations, the removal stats were juiced because of all the people crossing the border. A million removals from the interior requires a million arrests. And now everyone is actively hiding and thwarting us.”

Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent has set an ambitious July 4 deadline for the passage of the GOP megabill, which they hope to enact via fast-track budget procedures that will allow them to sidestep a Democratic filibuster. A number of committees are still hammering out their plans, including politically complicated cuts to Medicaid, and the House and Senate will need to reach a consensus on their proposals.

The House Judiciary Committee proposed raising revenue via a host of new fees on those who apply through the legal immigration system, including a first-of-its-kind minimum $1,000 fee for asylum seekers and $3,500 fee for sponsors of unaccompanied children.

Democrats, for their part, have virtually no means to block the bill’s passage, assuming the GOP can stay aligned.

But unlike Trump’s first term, during which a border wall funding fight prompted the longest-ever government shutdown, Democrats have so far not focused on the immigration and border provisions in their attacks on the bill. Instead they are spotlighting the potential cuts to government programs. During a committee markup, Democrats on the House Homeland Security Committee were largely silent about the tens of billions of dollars the committee’s bill allocates for the border wall system.

---
标题：House Republicans set flurry of meetings on GOP megabill
链接：https://www.politico.com/live-updates/2025/05/05/congress/house-republicans-set-flurry-of-meetings-on-gop-megabill-00327169

House Republicans have planned a slew of meetings this week that they hope will resolve huge political battles over their massive domestic policy bill as they race the clock on a Memorial Day deadline.

Republicans on the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee are planning to convene on 10 a.m. on Tuesday and 9 a.m. on Thursday, in addition to their weekly noon lunch Wednesday, according to a person granted anonymity to share the private plans. 

The so-called Big Six Meeting — run by Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent, with GOP leaders and the House and Senate tax committee chairs — is slated to convene late afternoon on Wednesday at the Treasury Department. 

Republicans on the House Energy and Commerce Committee are planning to meet from 10:15 a.m. to noon on Tuesday and from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. on Wednesday as they work through an internal fight over Medicaid spending cuts.

Energy and Commerce Chair Brett Guthrie (R-Ky.) is planning to drop by a meeting with Main Street Republicans on Monday night amid growing tensions between moderates and conservative hardliners over the scope of Medicaid cuts in the party-line bill. 

The committee’s target of $880 billion in spending cuts remains a huge political flashpoint for the GOP conference.

The meetings come as House GOP leadership is racing to finalize the sweeping border, defense, energy and tax bill by Memorial Day. In order to meet that very ambitious goal, panels like the Ways and Means, Energy and Commerce, and Agriculture committees would have to vote next week on the most politically sensitive portions of the agenda.

It’s looking to be a tall order, and several key power players, such as Bessent and Senate Majority Leader John Thune, say they are now targeting July 4 to pass President Donald Trump’s “big beautiful bill.”

Ways and Means Chair Jason Smith (R-Mo.) and a hardcore contingent of Republicans from blue states still have to resolve an ongoing fight over a proposed expansion of the state and local tax deduction. Despite a flurry of negotiations next week, the so-called SALT Republicans have yet to come to a consensus on how to expand the $10,000 cap on the deduction. 

The committee must also determine how much it is able to spend on the expensive tax deduction.

Tax writers are also looking to sunset most or all of the clean energy credits implemented by Democrats’ 2022 Inflation Reduction Act, which a group of 20-plus moderates have pushed back against.

The House Agriculture Committee, meanwhile, is navigating politically sensitive discussions over how to find the bulk of $230 billion in spending cuts in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, while also adding billions of dollars in crop reference prices and other farm bill pieces. 

Republicans on the panel are set to meet Tuesday as more controversial proposals circulated by GOP lawmakers have stoked private concerns from those who represent districts with many low-income families relying on the program.

_Ben Leonard contributed to this report._

---
标题：Senators unveil bipartisan plan to lower drug costs
链接：https://www.politico.com/live-updates/2025/05/05/congress/senators-unveil-bipartisan-plan-to-lower-drug-costs-00326246

Sens. [Josh Hawley](https://directory.politicopro.com/member/307631) and [Peter Welch](https://directory.politicopro.com/member/51230) are teaming up on bipartisan legislation aimed at lowering drug costs by barring drug companies in the U.S. from charging higher prices than the international average. 

While their bill is different from what the Trump administration is proposing to help finance the GOP's megabill of tax cuts and extensions, border security investments and more, it underscores the cross-party and populist interest in cracking down on pharmaceutical companies. The White House is pushing a proposal to reduce spending in Medicaid by aligning what the safety net program pays for drugs with the lower prices paid abroad.

In a statement shared first with POLITICO, Hawley, a Missouri Republican, tied the bipartisan legislation to President Donald Trump’s efforts during his first term to link drug prices in the United States to those in other high-income nations. 

“This bipartisan legislation would continue that work to end a drug market that favors Big Pharma, make prescriptions affordable again, and empower Americans to get the care they need,” Hawley said. 

Where congressional Republicans ultimately end up on drug pricing as part of their yet-to-be-finalized policy package remains to be seen. While the White House is pushing what it is calling a “most favored nation” plan, Speaker [Mike Johnson](https://directory.politicopro.com/member/242539) poured cold water on the idea during an interview last week. 

Hawley, meanwhile, is a key vote to watch on the Republicans’ sweeping party-line bill — and as part of the Senate’s debate on that measure, lawmakers will be able to offer unlimited amendments on nearly any proposal. He said that “if Republicans want to save money on health care costs in reconciliation, this is where to start.”

In addition to prohibiting pharmaceutical companies from selling drugs within the United States at a higher price than the international average, it also would impose a penalty if companies violate the prohibition. 

“Big Pharma’s price gouging has made that a reality for many Americans, forcing them to pay four or five times more for the same lifesaving medications as folks in other countries — it’s unacceptable,” said Welch, a Vermont Democrat. 

The legislation would go after the list price of drugs, but most Americans don’t pay the list price when getting prescriptions filled. That's because health insurers and pharmacy benefit managers are able to negotiate lower costs. 

The pharmaceutical industry is expected to fiercely oppose such a move, having previously argued that so-called international reference pricing and other similar "government price controls" would lead to significant barriers to accessing treatments for patients, including longer wait times for medications. 

The Congressional Budget Office found last year that an international reference pricing policy based on prices in several other high income countries, including Canada, France and the United Kingdom, would reduce average drug prices in 2031 by more than 5 percent.

---
标题：Capitol agenda: Crypto chaos hits the Senate
链接：https://www.politico.com/live-updates/2025/05/05/congress/crypto-stablecoin-senate-gallego-warren-trump-00326235

The GOP’s tax cut megabill isn’t the only one of President Donald Trump's priorities in jeopardy on Capitol Hill. Republicans have an unexpected crypto problem, too.

Crypto turmoil is unfolding in the Senate after nine key Democrats led by Sen. Ruben Gallego (Ariz.) said this weekend that they would [oppose GOP-led legislation](https://www.politico.com/news/2025/05/03/crypto-democrats-senate-stablecoin-00325255) that would carve out new rules for so-called stablecoins.

The Democrats’ surprise shift is an urgent problem for Senate Republicans, who are trying to expedite a floor vote on the bill by late May and give Trump a big, beautiful crypto bill to sign soon.

Why does it matter? The crypto fight is one of the first major tests of Republicans’ ability to work across the aisle in the second Trump era. Unlike budget reconciliation, GOP senators need Democrats to overcome a Senate filibuster.

It’s also a big test for Democrats, who have [long been deeply divided](https://www.politico.com/news/2025/02/26/crypto-democrats-gop-legislation-elizabeth-warren-00206018) over the risks and rewards of cryptocurrency trading. Sen. Elizabeth Warren (Mass.) is trying to stop her colleagues from following the lead of Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (N.Y.), the stablecoin bill’s lead Democratic co-sponsor.

It comes after the crypto industry grew its influence by dumping tens of millions of dollars into congressional races last year.

What went wrong? The nine Senate Democrats — including four who backed an earlier version of the bill in committee in March — blasted changes that Republicans made in the last several days and said the latest proposal would allow stablecoins to pose too many risks to the financial system. Among the Democrats who signed on: Sens. Mark Warner (Va.), Lisa Blunt Rochester (Del.) and Andy Kim (N.J.).

Several Democratic senators [raised concerns at a closed-door caucus meeting](https://www.politico.com/news/2025/05/04/how-senate-crypto-negotiations-fell-apart-00326129) last Thursday about advancing an industry-backed crypto bill as the Trump family tries to [build its own crypto empire](https://www.politico.com/news/2025/03/30/the-trump-family-is-cashing-in-on-crypto-its-creating-problems-in-congress-00255718). Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (N.Y.) urged Democrats not to commit to supporting the stablecoin bill, saying they should use their leverage to force additional changes to the legislation.

What’s next? GOP aides involved in talks say they were stunned by the Democrats’ statement Saturday but remain hopeful that there is still a path forward. And if the stablecoin legislation clears the Senate in the coming weeks, it would need to be reconciled with a separate but similar bill that is awaiting a floor vote in the House.

Internal GOP tensions could also emerge if House Republicans try to take a bigger swing at crypto by packaging the stablecoin effort with a broader regulatory revamp that would overhaul how the SEC and CFTC police crypto trading. Senate leaders including Banking Chair Tim Scott (R-S.C.) want to notch a win by first passing the stablecoin bill — long seen as the “low-hanging fruit” of crypto policy — and taking up the broader revamp later.

**_What else we're watching:_**

**— Big, beautiful bill problems:** Speaker Mike Johnson has major policy clashes to resolve this week before House Republicans can move ahead with key committee votes on Trump’s big domestic policy bill, including on Medicaid, food aid and tax. The pressure is on with Senate Republicans [watching and poised to scale things back](https://www.politico.com/news/2025/05/03/trump-republicans-megabill-reconciliation-problems-00324861).

**— Thune’s EV decision:** Senate Majority Leader John Thune needs to make a call on whether to nix a waiver that lets California set stricter car emissions standards rules after the House voted to do so last week. The GAO found that the waiver doesn’t fall under the scope of the Congressional Review Act, and the Senate parliamentarian is backing up that decision. But some GOP senators see a potential path forward in targeting the GAO’s role instead.

**— New drug cost bill:** Sens. Josh Hawley (R-Mo.) and Peter Welch (D-Vt.) are teaming up on legislation that would bar drug companies in the U.S. from charging higher prices than the international average. The bill is different than [the pharmaceutical industry crackdown](https://www.politico.com/news/2025/04/30/donald-trump-medicaid-cuts-mike-johnson-00320262) that the Trump administration is proposing to help finance the GOP budget reconciliation bill, but underscores the bipartisan and populist interest in targeting the drug companies.

_Jordain Carney, Meredith Lee Hill, Lisa Kashinsky, Ben Leonard and Mia McCarthy contributed to this report._

---
