标题：Wes Moore criticizes Trump for talking about Medicare cuts
链接：https://www.politico.com/news/2026/04/05/wes-moore-trump-medicare-cuts-00859272

Maryland Gov. Wes Moore said it was "nonsense" for President Donald Trump to say that the United States should not have to pay for Medicare or day care because the nation was busy fighting wars.

"That's nonsense," Moore said in an interview that aired Sunday on CBS' "Face the Nation." "And that's not what any of us want. We don't want to be fighting foreign wars while you're taking away our health care."

Moore was responding to a question by Ed O'Keefe about a statement the president made Wednesday at an Easter luncheon at the White House. “It’s not possible for us to take care of day care, Medicaid, Medicare, all these individual things,” Trump told that gathering. “They can do it on a state basis. You can’t do it on a federal. We have to take care of one thing: military protection. We have to guard the country.”

Video of the president's remarks was posted by the White House online, but subsequently deleted.

In addressing those remarks, Moore said no state had the capability of replacing the federal government as a provider for everything.

"So many of the decisions that this White House is making, they are making with a clear understanding that no state has a budget to say, 'OK, well, we'll just take on health care,' or 'We'll just take on food insecurity,'" he said.

Moore, who served in the 82nd Airborne Division in Afghanistan, also challenged how Trump has handled the Iran war — and all the side effects the war has caused.

"I think the president still does not have a full articulation as to why gas prices are going up in the first place, or what's going to be necessary or required to be able to bring them down," he said.

---
